art

it's sounds like a very mean and undemocratic thought,trading off the peculiar glamour that isolation has in
a romatic culture in oreder to gain an oblique sense of superiority.and perhaps pass off an absence of social
skills as a virtue.

emotional intelligence,which exists or not in every strata and knook of society.it means a capacity for 
self-honesty and self-observation.it means,a knack for opening oneself up to the stranger,more exciting.less
easily admissible aspects of oneself.and at the same time,for noticing the many beautiful,peculiar,and 
profound experiences and sensations passing through consciousness.

we are not used to doing this.we cleave tightly to reassuring notions of what normal people are like,which
means we exclude a lot -often the richest bit of what we truly feel,want and think.we edit out our more
generous,wilder,more impatient,more terrifying sides;leaving only the socially admissible husk that we 
artfully pretend is who we are.and simultaneously,we ensure that we are never far from sth that can take us
powerfully away from ourselves.and so miss out on the troubling wonders that streak across the mental horizon
at everyinstant.most of what is in our minds remains unfelt and unseen,troubling us only in the small hours,
insomnia is the revenge for all that we tried so hard not to notice in the daylight.

a certain sort of intelligent person is ,above all else,a superior and more committed reporter of their inner
states,quote Emerson:in the minds of geniuses,we find-oncemore-our own neglected thoughts.

people who have devoted themselves to self-honesty and self-observation have an above average chance of 
meeting with incomprehension,irritation,censorship or boredom when they attempt to share the data from their
own minds frankly in company.their thoughts might be on politics or architecture,family life or sexuality,
will sound more threatening,intense,oblique or tender than is allowed.

that feels lonely,if one is in the mood to frame ths like this.there r simply fewer people at large committed
to self-honesty and self-observation.and therefore up for exchanging notes on what it's truly like to be 
alive.

works of art are humanity's secret diary:record of all that could not be said in regular social contexts,but
which have found a home in the more intimate,honest communication that can take place between an art-work and
its audience.

they have an unusually easy time finding company with people who are not in room.the fancy term for which we
call art.

we have perhaps over-privileged certain standard notions of friendship.we may just have to accept that our 
best friends could have died 200 years ago.and be chatting to us via dabs of paint or within rhyming pentameters























